Priced to Sell
Is free the future?
by Malcolm Gladwell July 6, 2009

Print E-Mail Feeds

$B!H(BIn the digital realm you can try to keep Free at bay,$B!I(B Chris
Anderson writes, $B!H(Bbut eventually the force of economic gravity will
win.$B!I(B


Keywords
    $B!H(BFree: The Future of a Radical Price$B!I(B (Hyperion; $26.99);
    Chris Anderson;
    Google;
    Technology;
    YouTube;
    Amazon;
    Kindle

At a hearing on Capitol Hill in May, James Moroney, the publisher of
the Dallas Morning News, told Congress about negotiations he$B!G(Bd just
had with the online retailer Amazon. The idea was to license his
newspaper$B!G(Bs content to the Kindle, Amazon$B!G(Bs new electronic
reader. $B!H(BThey want seventy per cent of the subscription revenue,$B!I(B 
Moroney testified. $B!H(BI get thirty per cent, they get seventy per
cent. On top of that, they have said we get the right to republish
your intellectual property to any portable device.$B!I(B The idea was that
if a Kindle subscription to the Dallas Morning News cost ten dollars a
month, seven dollars of that belonged to Amazon, the provider of the
gadget on which the news was read, and just three dollars belonged to
the newspaper, the provider of an expensive and ever-changing variety
of editorial content. The people at Amazon valued the newspaper$B!G(Bs
contribution so little, in fact, that they felt they ought then to be
able to license it to anyone else they wanted. Another witness at the
hearing, Arianna Huffington, of the Huffington Post, said that she
thought the Kindle could provide a business model to save the
beleaguered newspaper industry. Moroney disagreed. $B!H(BI get thirty per
cent and they get the right to license my content to any portable
device%G—%@not just ones made by Amazon?$B!I(B He was incredulous. 
$B!H(BThat, to me, is not a model.$B!I(B

Had James Moroney read Chris Anderson$B!G(Bs new book, $B!H(BFree: The Future
of a Radical Price$B!I(B (Hyperion; $26.99), Amazon$B!G(Bs offer might not
have seemed quite so surprising. Anderson is the editor of Wired and
the author of the 2006 best-seller $B!H(BThe Long Tail,$B!I(B and $B!H(BFree$B!I(B is
essentially an extended elaboration of Stewart Brand$B!G(Bs famous
declaration that $B!H(Binformation wants to be free.$B!I(B The digital age,
Anderson argues, is exerting an inexorable downward pressure on the
prices of all things $B!H(Bmade of ideas.$B!I(B Anderson does not consider
this a passing trend. Rather, he seems to think of it as an iron law: 
$B!H(BIn the digital realm you can try to keep Free at bay with laws and
locks, but eventually the force of economic gravity will win.$B!I(B To
musicians who believe that their music is being pirated, Anderson is
blunt. They should stop complaining, and capitalize on the added
exposure that piracy provides by making money through touring,
merchandise sales, and $B!H(Byes, the sale of some of [their] music to
people who still want CDs or prefer to buy their music online.$B!I(B To
the Dallas Morning News, he would say the same thing. Newspapers need
to accept that content is never again going to be worth what they want
it to be worth, and reinvent their business. $B!H(BOut of the bloodbath
will come a new role for professional journalists,$B!I(B he predicts, and
he goes on:


There may be more of them, not fewer, as the ability to participate in
journalism extends beyond the credentialed halls of traditional
media. But they may be paid far less, and for many it won$B!G(Bt be a full
time job at all. Journalism as a profession will share the stage with
journalism as an avocation. Meanwhile, others may use their skills to
teach and organize amateurs to do a better job covering their own
communities, becoming more editor/coach than writer. If so, leveraging
the Free---paying people to get other people to write for
non-monetary rewards---may not be the enemy of professional
journalists. Instead, it may be their salvation.

Anderson is very good at paragraphs like this---with its
reassuring arc from $B!H(Bbloodbath$B!I(B to $B!H(Bsalvation.$B!I(B His advice is
pithy, his tone uncompromising, and his subject matter perfectly timed
for a moment when old-line content providers are desperate for
answers. That said, it is not entirely clear what distinction is being
marked between $B!H(Bpaying people to get other people to write$B!I(B and
paying people to write. If you can afford to pay someone to get other
people to write, why can$B!G(Bt you pay people to write? It would be nice
to know, as well, just how a business goes about reorganizing itself
around getting people to work for $B!H(Bnon-monetary rewards.$B!I(B Does he
mean that the New York Times should be staffed by volunteers, like
Meals on Wheels? Anderson$B!G(Bs reference to people who $B!H(Bprefer to buy
their music online$B!I(B carries the faint suggestion that refraining from
theft should be considered a mere preference. And then there is his
insistence that the relentless downward pressure on prices represents
an iron law of the digital economy. Why is it a law? Free is just
another price, and prices are set by individual actors, in accordance
with the aggregated particulars of marketplace power. $B!H(BInformation
wants to be free,$B!I(B Anderson tells us, $B!H(Bin the same way that life
wants to spread and water wants to run downhill.$B!I(B But information can$B!G(B
t actually want anything, can it? Amazon wants the information in the
Dallas paper to be free, because that way Amazon makes more money. Why
are the self-interested motives of powerful companies being elevated
to a philosophical principle? But we are getting ahead of ourselves.

Anderson$B!G(Bs argument begins with a technological trend. The cost of
the building blocks of all electronic activity---storage, processing,
and bandwidth---has fallen so far that it is now approaching
zero. In 1961, Anderson says, a single transistor was ten dollars. In
1963, it was five dollars. By 1968, it was one dollar. Today, Intel
will sell you two billion transistors for eleven hundred
dollars---meaning that the cost of a single transistor is now
about .000055 cents.

Anderson$B!G(Bs second point is that when prices hit zero extraordinary
things happen. Anderson describes an experiment conducted by the
M.I.T. behavioral economist Dan Ariely, the author of $B!H(BPredictably
Irrational.$B!I(B Ariely offered a group of subjects a choice between two
kinds of chocolate---Hershey$B!G(Bs Kisses, for one cent, and Lindt
truffles, for fifteen cents. Three-quarters of the subjects chose the
truffles. Then he redid the experiment, reducing the price of both
chocolates by one cent. The Kisses were now free. What happened? The
order of preference was reversed. Sixty-nine per cent of the subjects
chose the Kisses. The price difference between the two chocolates was
exactly the same, but that magic word $B!H(Bfree$B!I(B has the power to create
a consumer stampede. Amazon has had the same experience with its offer
of free shipping for orders over twenty-five dollars. The idea is to
induce you to buy a second book, if your first book comes in at less
than the twenty-five-dollar threshold. And that$B!G(Bs exactly what it
does. In France, however, the offer was mistakenly set at the
equivalent of twenty cents---and consumers didn$B!G(Bt buy the
second book. $B!H(BFrom the consumer$B!G(Bs perspective, there is a huge
difference between cheap and free,$B!I(B Anderson writes. $B!H(BGive a product
away, and it can go viral. Charge a single cent for it and you$B!G(Bre in
an entirely different business. . . . The truth is that zero is one
market and any other price is another.$B!I(B

Since the falling costs of digital technology let you make as much
stuff as you want, Anderson argues, and the magic of the word $B!H(Bfree$B!I(B 
creates instant demand among consumers, then Free (Anderson honors it
with a capital) represents an enormous business opportunity. Companies
ought to be able to make huge amounts of money $B!H(Baround$B!I(B the thing
being given away---as Google gives away its search and e-mail
and makes its money on advertising.

Anderson cautions that this philosophy of embracing the Free involves
moving from a $B!H(Bscarcity$B!I(B mind-set to an $B!H(Babundance$B!I(B 
mind-set. Giving something away means that a lot of it will be
wasted. But because it costs almost nothing to make things, digitally,
we can afford to be wasteful. The elaborate mechanisms we set up to
monitor and judge the quality of content are, Anderson thinks,
artifacts of an era of scarcity: we had to worry about how to allocate
scarce resources like newsprint and shelf space and broadcast
time. Not anymore. Look at YouTube, he says, the free video archive
owned by Google. YouTube lets anyone post a video to its site free,
and lets anyone watch a video on its site free, and it doesn$B!G(Bt have
to pass judgment on the quality of the videos it archives. $B!H(BNobody is
deciding whether a video is good enough to justify the scarce channel
space it takes, because there is no scarce channel space,$B!I(B he writes,
and goes on:


Distribution is now close enough to free to round down. Today, it
costs about $0.25 to stream one hour of video to one person. Next
year, it will be $0.15. A year later it will be less than a
dime. Which is why YouTube$B!G(Bs founders decided to give it
away. . . . The result is both messy and runs counter to every
instinct of a television professional, but this is what abundance both
requires and demands.

There are four strands of argument here: a technological claim
(digital infrastructure is effectively Free), a psychological claim
(consumers love Free), a procedural claim (Free means never having to
make a judgment), and a commercial claim (the market created by the
technological Free and the psychological Free can make you a lot of
money). The only problem is that in the middle of laying out what he
sees as the new business model of the digital age Anderson is forced
to admit that one of his main case studies, YouTube, $B!H(Bhas so far
failed to make any money for Google.$B!I(B

Why is that? Because of the very principles of Free that Anderson so
energetically celebrates. When you let people upload and download as
many videos as they want, lots of them will take you up on the
offer. That$B!G(Bs the magic of Free psychology: an estimated seventy-five
billion videos will be served up by YouTube this year. Although the
magic of Free technology means that the cost of serving up each video
is $B!H(Bclose enough to free to round down,$B!I(B $B!H(Bclose enough to free$B!I(B 
multiplied by seventy-five billion is still a very large number. A
recent report by Credit Suisse estimates that YouTube$B!G(Bs bandwidth
costs in 2009 will be three hundred and sixty million dollars. In the
case of YouTube, the effects of technological Free and psychological
Free work against each other.

So how does YouTube bring in revenue? Well, it tries to sell
advertisements alongside its videos. The problem is that the videos
attracted by psychological Free---pirated material, cat videos,
and other forms of user-generated content---are not the sort of
thing that advertisers want to be associated with. In order to sell
advertising, YouTube has had to buy the rights to professionally
produced content, such as television shows and movies. Credit Suisse
put the cost of those licenses in 2009 at roughly two hundred and
sixty million dollars. For Anderson, YouTube illustrates the principle
that Free removes the necessity of aesthetic judgment. (As he puts it,
YouTube proves that $B!H(Bcrap is in the eye of the beholder.$B!I(B) But, in
order to make money, YouTube has been obliged to pay for programs that
aren$B!G(Bt crap. To recap: YouTube is a great example of Free, except
that Free technology ends up not being Free because of the way
consumers respond to Free, fatally compromising YouTube$B!G(Bs ability to
make money around Free, and forcing it to retreat from the $B!H(Babundance
thinking$B!I(B that lies at the heart of Free. Credit Suisse estimates
that YouTube will lose close to half a billion dollars this year. If
it were a bank, it would be eligible for TARP funds.

Anderson begins the second part of his book by quoting Lewis Strauss,
the former head of the Atomic Energy Commission, who famously
predicted in the mid-nineteen-fifties that $B!H(Bour children will enjoy
in their homes electrical energy too cheap to meter.$B!I(B

$B!H(BWhat if Strauss had been right?$B!I(B Anderson wonders, and then
diligently sorts through the implications: as much fresh water as you
could want, no reliance on fossil fuels, no global warming, abundant
agricultural production. Anderson wants to take $B!H(Btoo cheap to meter$B!I(B 
seriously, because he believes that we are on the cusp of our own 
$B!H(Btoo cheap to meter$B!I(B revolution with computer processing, storage,
and bandwidth. But here is the second and broader problem with
Anderson$B!G(Bs argument: he is asking the wrong question. It is pointless
to wonder what would have happened if Strauss$B!G(Bs prediction had come
true while rushing past the reasons that it could not have come true.

Strauss$B!G(Bs optimism was driven by the fuel cost of nuclear
energy---which was so low compared with its fossil-fuel
counterparts that he considered it (to borrow Anderson$B!G(Bs phrase)
close enough to free to round down. Generating and distributing
electricity, however, requires a vast and expensive infrastructure of
transmission lines and power plants---and it is this
infrastructure that accounts for most of the cost of electricity. Fuel
prices are only a small part of that. As Gordon Dean, Strauss$B!G(Bs
predecessor at the A.E.C., wrote, $B!H(BEven if coal were mined and
distributed free to electric generating plants today, the reduction in
your monthly electricity bill would amount to but twenty per cent, so
great is the cost of the plant itself and the distribution system.$B!I(B

This is the kind of error that technological utopians make. They
assume that their particular scientific revolution will wipe away all
traces of its predecessors---that if you change the fuel you
change the whole system. Strauss went on to forecast $B!H(Ban age of
peace,$B!I(B jumping from atoms to human hearts. $B!H(BAs the world of chips
and glass fibers and wireless waves goes, so goes the rest of the
world,$B!I(B Kevin Kelly, another Wired visionary, proclaimed at the start
of his 1998 digital manifesto, $B!H(BNew Rules for the New Economy,$B!I(B 
offering up the same non sequitur. And now comes Anderson. $B!H(BThe more
products are made of ideas, rather than stuff, the faster they can get
cheap,$B!I(B he writes, and we know what$B!G(Bs coming next: $B!H(BHowever, this
is not limited to digital products.$B!I(B Just look at the pharmaceutical
industry, he says. Genetic engineering means that drug development is
poised to follow the same learning curve of the digital world, to 
$B!H(Baccelerate in performance while it drops in price.$B!I(B

But, like Strauss, he$B!G(Bs forgotten about the plants and the power
lines. The expensive part of making drugs has never been what happens
in the laboratory. It$B!G(Bs what happens after the laboratory, like the
clinical testing, which can take years and cost hundreds of millions
of dollars. In the pharmaceutical world, what$B!G(Bs more, companies have
chosen to use the potential of new technology to do something very
different from their counterparts in Silicon Valley. They$B!G(Bve been
trying to find a way to serve smaller and smaller markets---to
create medicines tailored to very specific subpopulations and strains
of diseases---and smaller markets often mean higher prices. The
biotechnology company Genzyme spent five hundred million dollars
developing the drug Myozyme, which is intended for a condition, Pompe
disease, that afflicts fewer than ten thousand people worldwide. That$B!G(B
s the quintessential modern drug: a high-tech, targeted remedy that
took a very long and costly path to market. Myozyme is priced at three
hundred thousand dollars a year. Genzyme isn$B!G(Bt a mining company: its
real assets are intellectual property---information, not
stuff. But, in this case, information does not want to be free. It
wants to be really, really expensive.

And there$B!G(Bs plenty of other information out there that has chosen to
run in the opposite direction from Free. The Times gives away its
content on its Web site. But the Wall Street Journal has found that
more than a million subscribers are quite happy to pay for the
privilege of reading online. Broadcast television---the original
practitioner of Free---is struggling. But premium cable, with
its stiff monthly charges for specialty content, is doing just
fine. Apple may soon make more money selling iPhone downloads (ideas)
than it does from the iPhone itself (stuff). The company could one day
give away the iPhone to boost downloads; it could give away the
downloads to boost iPhone sales; or it could continue to do what it
does now, and charge for both. Who knows? The only iron law here is
the one too obvious to write a book about, which is that the digital
age has so transformed the ways in which things are made and sold that
there are no iron laws.
