
-- All points --



-- Top Level --

Information credibility on the web is important

We build a database of factual claims that people believe are disputed

We use the distributional hypotheses to create additional templates

We are making this data set available to other researchers who want to use it




-- Structure --

Abstract
	Information credibility on the web is important
	We have built a database of factual claims that people believe are disputed
	We have done this by searching for phrases like "falsely claimed that"
	
Introduction
	Information credibility is important
		We are increasingly reliant on information from the web
		People read a wider range of sources that before
		People do not trust information from the web
	People do not posses sufficient skills to know what information in credible
		Do not rigorously evaluate sources
	
Background and Related Work
	Studies on how credible things are
	Approaches to credibility:
		Credibility = is this person trustworthy + are they an expert
		Some approaches focus on telling how trustworthy they are
	Work that finds particular grammatic features:
		Hyponyms - Marti Hearst
		DIRT - finding templates that mean the same thing
	Sentiment analysis
		Finds out when someone is positive or negative about something
	Find disputes by looking for contradictions
		Is very difficult to do automatically.
		Textual entailment vs contradiction
	
		
Finding Disputed Claims
	

		
	
Approaches to credibility:
	Focus on helping people know when particular information is disputed.
	Alternative is to focus on reputation of a person.
	Our aim is to let you know when someone credible disagrees with
		something you read.
		
What we have done:
	Built a database of disputed claims
	A disputed claim is a claim that someone thinks others are making and believes is wrong
	
How might people use this data:
	Auto-detect whether a document you are reading now contains disputed claims.
	Auto-detect whether a document you read previously is disputed.
	Tell me about disputed claims about a topic I'm interested in, so I know if I'm being duped.
	Tell me what new disputed claims have appeared, so I can get a feel of the dialog going on.
	Let me explore what is being disputed.
	

	
	
Related work:
	Several ways to determine if something is credible
		Can determine if the source is credible
		Or can determine if the content is credible


-- established beliefs from 2009 reportout --

Research on content credibility is necessary.
the web influences our daily lives.
Web lacks publishing barriers and has poor quality control.

Common goal of improving the quality of information on the web, and 
providing users with effective tools for supporting credibility estimation
of web content.
