the moon is made of cheese
obama is a muslim
global warming does not exist
the earth is not getting warmer
global warming is good
adam named the dinosaurs
elvis took drugs
tax increases hurt the economy
vaccines cause autism
vaccines contain thimerosal
thimerosal causes autism
vaccines contain anti-freeze
vaccines contain toxins
temperature rise was actually caused by local factors affecting the weather stations
Loss of ice climbs are a poor indicator of a reduction in mountain ice as climbers can knock ice down
Goerge Carlin wrote The Paradox of Our Time
Legalization of drugs would increase drug use
US healthcare reform plans for a public option would remove choice
Eating carrots results in improved vision.
We use only ten percent of our brains. 
A dog named Daisy rescued countless souls from the damaged World Trade Center towers. 
Carbon dioxide causes global warming
we are all dependent on the stock market for our retirement
abortion reduces crime
That Blackface is Not Culturally Insensitive
The IPCC report reflects the view of scientists
technology is improving at an increasing pace
capital inflows bring economic success
"Top of the morning to you" is a real Irish saying.
The oldest word in the English language is “town.”
chameleons change color to blend in to their surroundings
Dark matter is Magic.
A right is not a positive entitlement.
The Redwood City Saltwater ponds are not part of San Francisco Bay
Global warming has natural causes
homeopathy works
earth is undergoing global warming
There are no transitional fossils.
Iran threatened to attack Israel
Iran is a militarized society
The Community Reinvestment Act caused the housing bubble
acesulfame K causes cancer in animals
Soy food products are linked to thyroid cancer.
People used to be worried about Global Cooling
Hitler escaped from Berlin in 1945
warming stopped in 1998
Iain Banks is the first author to podcast a novel.
Disney invented the lie that lemmings commit mass suicide.
The earth is cooling
Natural medicine is better than conventional medicine
An asteroid will hit the earth in 2036
Human beings are getting smarter
Carbon cap and trade would be bad for the US economy
raw food is healthy
we should end fee for service medicine
Wikipedia is as accurate as Britannica
marijuana is bad for you
cap and trade would cause job losses
Global warming is a hoax
Iran threatened to wipe Israel off the map
Homosexuals shouldn't be allowed to adopt.
Earth's oceans came from meteors
marijuana is unhealthy
 Poinsettia plants are poisonous to humans. 
Elvis Presley is still alive 
most bankruptcies are caused by medical debt
the average family spends 13000 a year on health care
President Obama's healthcare plan would cover illegal immigrants.
America has the best healthcare in the world
Dieting is not effective
israeli settlements are not illegal
You eat spiders while you sleep 
corn-based ethanol is effective to achieve energy independence
Multiplying your dog's age by seven will produce its equivalent in human years. 
Lower obesity rates would save Medicare $1 trillion
health care reform will outlaw private insurance
Legalization of drugs would reduce crime rates
Lie detectors work
Obama's healthcare plan would encourage euthanasia of the elderly
Recycling is good for the environment
The frequency of earthquakes has been increasing in recent years.
Cars bought under clunkers law are more fuel efficient than the law requires.
Euthanasia should be legalized
israel is the only democracy in the middle east
Soy is healthy
76% of Americans want a public health care option
health care reform will pay for abortions
Health care is a right
torture works
World Trade Center building 7 was destroyed in a controlled demolition
Honduran President Manuel Zelaya was victim of military coup
US health care ranks 37th in the world
Obama was not born in Hawaii
Eskimos have many words for snow
